---
layout: post
title: "Part 3: Add a Test"
---

This is the third parts of a series about creating Azure Functions in TypeScript. In this part we will add a test using the Jest test framework and then use the CircleCI continuous integration framework to run the test automatically.
TODO: Insert gist showing the changes in index.ts.
index.ts is renamed to greet.ts. This is done to avoid having lots of index.ts files in the code base.
Adding a test. Jest is a all-in-one framework that includes a test-runner, natural-language-checker. Mocha + Chai. Great Jest extension VSCode. It looks like Jest is becoming the de facto standard. TypeScript support.
TODO: Note on how much bigger node_modules becomes because of Jest.
CircleCI config.yml file. How to determine the exact version of Node.js on Azure.
CircleCI requires JUNIT XML files, but Jest only supports JSON out of the box.
Strick mode FTW! This turns on a bunch of compile check features, one of them being that types can't implicitly be any. So we add the @azure/functions Node module. Microsoft hasn't published the types as a @types module. This is not HttpResponse so the best we can do is to set the type of the function to Promise<any>.
Deterministic behaviour. Rimraf is simply a cross platform version of rm -rf. Why --frozen-lockfile?
Prettier. "Nobody likes what Prettier does to their own code, but everybody loves what Pretties does to everybody else's code.".
Lint. Turning off the rules that Prettier takes care of. Running TSLint's recommended setup, but I still feel like tweaking a bit.
All the code minor code changes.


TPrettier. VSCode with autoformatonsave=true. There are a range of pre-commit hooks if you don't use VSCode. https://prettier.io/docs/en/precommit.html
