---
layout: post
title: "Part 6: Refactor"
---

This is the 6th part of the series about writing an serverless Azure Function in TypeScript. Since we now have and end-to-end test up and running we will refactor the code, cleaning it up a bit.
Strict mode
The first thing we do is turn on TypeScript's strict mode, enabling a range of compile-time checks. You should always strive to enable this when using TypeScript, especially when starting from scratch.
noImplicitAny is one of those checks, requiring that we specify the types of our parameters.
We can satisfy the compiler specifying the types as any, but we can do better and install the type definitions for Azure Functions, available in the @azure/functions package. The package doesn't include a type for the HTTP response, so here we fallback to using any, Promise<any>.
The package only contains type definitions so makes most sense to install it as a development dependency, since it's only used when compiling the TypeScript code. To avoid that TSLint complains about importing a package that isn't listed as a dependency, so we loosen up TSLint's rule
. Only contains type definitions the package is completely unused once the code has been compiled to JavaScript.
We can either move @azure/function to dependencies or loosen up on TSLint's rules. In the next part we will add a dependency on a package, installing 
TODO: Note about tslint and devDependencies.
TODO: rimraf to make it cross platform. "Writing posix command lines inside your scripts field will work regardless of the underlying operating system. This is because Berry will ship with a portable posix-like light shell that'll be used by default." https://github.com/yarnpkg/yarn/issues/6953. I haven't tested this on Windows, though, so if you find any issues, you're very welcome to add an issue or a pull request to the GitHub repo.


Return the HTTP response instead of defining it on the context object, because this is a more functional coding style.
